README.md, before:

# Pokémon Team Generator

Simple scripts to generate "optimal" Pokémon teams given an input list of Pokémon.

This script has two parts: generating candidate Pokémon and generating teams. In general, you will run the first script
to generate candidate Pokémon first, then manually inspect and edit the results to your own specific requirements. Then,
pass that result into the second script to generate and sort teams made up of these Pokémon.

## Setup

1. Make sure you have Python 3 installed.
2. Install dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Generating Candidate Pokémon

This script generates a CSV file of candidate Pokémon to be considered when generating a Pokémon team.

By default, all fully evolved Pokémon in the game's Pokedex are included.

This script has a few other limitations:

1. Games with non-traditional starts, such as Yellow, Coliseum, XD: Gale of Darkness, and the Let's Go games, may not
   identify starter Pokémon properly.
2. This script does not currently support filtering out Pokémon which are not obtainable in a specific game.
   All Pokémon in the game's Pokedex are considered, regardless of whether they can be legitimately or easily obtained.
3. Pokémon with multiple forms may not be handled properly. It is recommended that you manually inspect the entries for
   Pokémon with multiple forms after running the script.
4. Pokémon which have evolutions which were introduced in later games than when the Pokémon was first introduced may not
   be handled correctly.

The output of this script is a CSV file containing the list of candidate Pokémon along with data about each Pokémon.
After running the script, inspect the resulting file and ensure it meets your specifications, manually adding, removing,
or updating rows as needed.

### Usage

```
usage: generate_candidate_pokemon_list.py [-h]
                                          -g {red,blue,yellow,gold,silver,crystal,ruby,sapphire,emerald,firered,leafgreen,diamond,pearl,platinum,heartgold,soulsilver,black,white,colosseum,xd,black-2,white-2,x,y,omega-ruby,alpha-sapphire,sun,moon,ultra-sun,ultra-moon,lets-go-pikachu,lets-go-eevee,sword,shield,the-isle-of-armor,the-crown-tundra,brilliant-diamond,shining-pearl,legends-arceus,scarlet,violet,the-teal-mask,the-indigo-disk}
                                          [-e | --include-pokemon-which-can-evolve | --no-include-pokemon-which-can-evolve] [-o OUTPUT_FILE_NAME]

This script generates a CSV file of candidate Pokémon to be considered when generating a Pokémon team.

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -g, --game-version-id {red,blue,yellow,gold,silver,crystal,ruby,sapphire,emerald,firered,leafgreen,diamond,pearl,platinum,heartgold,soulsilver,black,white,colosseum,xd,black-2,white-2,x,y,omega-ruby,alpha-sapphire,sun,moon,ultra-sun,ultra-moon,lets-go-pikachu,lets-go-eevee,sword,shield,the-isle-of-armor,the-crown-tundra,brilliant-diamond,shining-pearl,legends-arceus,scarlet,violet,the-teal-mask,the-indigo-disk}
                        The game version ID for which to generate the candidate Pokémon, as defined by PokéAPI. Generally a hyphenated, lower-case string of the game title, such as "omega-ruby". Read more at
                        https://pokeapi.co/docs/v2#version.
  -e, --include-pokemon-which-can-evolve, --no-include-pokemon-which-can-evolve
                        Whether or not Pokémon which can still evolve should be considered as candidates. Teams are generally made up of fully evolved Pokémon, so this is not enabled by default.
  -o, --output-file OUTPUT_FILE_NAME
```

## Generating Pokémon Teams

This script accepts an input of candidate Pokémon and outputs a list of potential Pokémon teams sorted by total base
stats.

All resulting teams will have complete offensive type coverage (this does not take specific move-sets into
account; only the Pokémon's typing is taken into consideration). Additionally, all resulting teams will contain exactly
one starter Pokémon.

This script uses the most recent type-advantage mapping as of 3/19/2025, which aligns with the behavior in the games of
Generation IX. For games in previous generations, this type-advantage mapping may be inaccurate, leading to wrong
results.

### Usage

```
usage: generate_pokemon_teams.py [-h] [-i INPUT_FILE_NAME] [-o OUTPUT_FILE_NAME]

This script accepts an input of candidate Pokémon and outputs a list of potential Pokémon teams sorted by total base stats.

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -i, --input-file INPUT_FILE_NAME
                        Path to the CSV file of candidate Pokémon, as generated by generated_candidate_pokemon_list.py.
  -o, --output-file OUTPUT_FILE_NAME
```

Commit message:

Add handling for evolutions introduced in later games, clean up README.md, filter out mega, gigantamax, and totem varieties

README.md, after:

# Pokémon Team Generator

Simple scripts to generate "optimal" Pokémon teams given an input list of Pokémon.

This script has two parts: generating candidate Pokémon and generating teams. In general, you will run the first script
to generate candidate Pokémon first, then manually inspect and edit the results to your own specific requirements. Then,
pass that result into the second script to generate and sort teams made up of these Pokémon.

## Setup

1. Make sure you have Python 3 installed.
2. Install dependencies: `pip install -r requirements.txt`

## Generating Candidate Pokémon

This script generates a CSV file of candidate Pokémon to be considered when generating a Pokémon team.

By default, all fully evolved Pokémon in the game's Pokedex are included.

This script has a few limitations:

1. Games with non-traditional starters, such as Yellow, Coliseum, XD: Gale of Darkness, and the Let's Go games, may not
   identify starter Pokémon properly.
2. This script does not currently support filtering out Pokémon which are not obtainable in a specific game, such as
   version-specific Pokémon or event legendaries.
   All Pokémon in the game's Pokedex are considered, regardless of whether they can be legitimately or easily obtained
3. Pokémon with multiple forms may not be handled properly. It is recommended that you manually inspect the entries for
   Pokémon with multiple forms after running the script. This is mostly due to PokéAPI not having updated `game_indices`
   for Pokémon introduced in more recent games.

The output of this script is a CSV file containing the list of candidate Pokémon along with data about each Pokémon.
After running the script, inspect the resulting file and ensure it meets your specifications, manually adding, removing,
or updating rows as needed.

### Usage

```
usage: generate_candidate_pokemon_list.py [-h]
                                          -g {red,blue,yellow,gold,silver,crystal,ruby,sapphire,emerald,firered,leafgreen,diamond,pearl,platinum,heartgold,soulsilver,black,white,colosseum,xd,black-2,white-2,x,y,omega-ruby,alpha-sapphire,sun,moon,ultra-sun,ultra-moon,lets-go-pikachu,lets-go-eevee,sword,shield,the-isle-of-armor,the-crown-tundra,brilliant-diamond,shining-pearl,legends-arceus,scarlet,violet,the-teal-mask,the-indigo-disk}
                                          [-e | --include-pokemon-which-can-evolve | --no-include-pokemon-which-can-evolve] [-o OUTPUT_FILE_NAME]

This script generates a CSV file of candidate Pokémon to be considered when generating a Pokémon team.

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -g, --game-version-id {red,blue,yellow,gold,silver,crystal,ruby,sapphire,emerald,firered,leafgreen,diamond,pearl,platinum,heartgold,soulsilver,black,white,colosseum,xd,black-2,white-2,x,y,omega-ruby,alpha-sapphire,sun,moon,ultra-sun,ultra-moon,lets-go-pikachu,lets-go-eevee,sword,shield,the-isle-of-armor,the-crown-tundra,brilliant-diamond,shining-pearl,legends-arceus,scarlet,violet,the-teal-mask,the-indigo-disk}
                        The game version ID for which to generate the candidate Pokémon, as defined by PokéAPI. Generally a hyphenated, lower-case string of the game title, such as "omega-ruby". Read more at
                        https://pokeapi.co/docs/v2#version.
  -e, --include-pokemon-which-can-evolve, --no-include-pokemon-which-can-evolve
                        Whether or not Pokémon which can still evolve should be considered as candidates. Teams are generally made up of fully evolved Pokémon, so this is not enabled by default.
  -o, --output-file OUTPUT_FILE_NAME
```

## Generating Pokémon Teams

This script accepts an input of candidate Pokémon and outputs a list of potential Pokémon teams sorted by total base
stats.

All resulting teams will have complete offensive type coverage (this does not take specific move-sets into
account; only the Pokémon's typing is taken into consideration). Additionally, all resulting teams will contain exactly
one starter Pokémon.

This script uses the most recent type-advantage mapping as of 3/19/2025, which aligns with the behavior in the games of
Generation IX. For games in previous generations, this type-advantage mapping may be inaccurate, leading to wrong
results.

### Usage

```
usage: generate_pokemon_teams.py [-h] [-i INPUT_FILE_NAME] [-o OUTPUT_FILE_NAME]

This script accepts an input of candidate Pokémon and outputs a list of potential Pokémon teams sorted by total base stats.

options:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -i, --input-file INPUT_FILE_NAME
                        Path to the CSV file of candidate Pokémon, as generated by generated_candidate_pokemon_list.py.
  -o, --output-file OUTPUT_FILE_NAME
```
